---
layout: post
modal-id: 4
date: 2014-07-15
img: amazon.png
alt: image-alt
project-date: April 2014
description: Modeling Costs for Last-mile Delivery
title: Optimizing Contracts for Amazon Logistics
---

## Summary

This case competition was put on by Amazon Logistics' Research team. The challenge was to determine what wage to offer three different types of truck-driver for last-mile delivery (delivery from distribution center to home). 


Each type of driver had a different level of risk associated with their wage: 

- guaranteed drivers are paid whether or not there are packages available

- option drivers are paid a reservation price but not a full wage if there are no packages for them to deliver

- spot drivers are paid only if there are packages for them to deliver. 

Given a normal distribution of packages, we needed to model profits as a function of the wages offered to different drivers. We used game theory to formulate a nonlinear optimization problem. Our two-person team won second place.

## Project Outline

- Background research on wages for truck drivers

- Understand that implicit in the challenge is deciding how many of each type of driver to hire

- Propose that drivers will accept or reject a contract based on their perceived risk of not getting hired (ie, they will demand a risk premium if their wage is not guaranteed)

- Define variables, such as the day's demand and wage paid to each driver type

- Define parameters such as the market wage and the probability of getting hired by another company

- Define relating equations based on classical risk aversion functions and the normal distribution

- Model Total Expected Cost as a function of the wage variables, using relationships defined previously to eliminate other variables

- Perform a grid search to find the wages that minimize Total Expected Cost

## Tools and Models

Much of the work was formulating the model, which was done analytically (math by hand). Our final optimization was a fairly complicated nonlinear model. In order to do any optimization, we needed to build a model in R so that we could perform a grid search.

[The six-page white paper, with mathematical and code appendix, is available here.](abbeychaver.github.io/img/portfolio/Amazon_Collider_Project.pdf)