---
layout: post
modal-id: 1
date: 2016-12-05
img: EarningsGaps.png
alt: image-alt
project-date: Dec 2016

description: Exploratory Analysis and Hypothesis Testing
title: Patterns in Higher Education Outcome Gaps
---


## Summary

This was an open-ended project for a class focused on reproducible data science. Using a federally maintained dataset on US Colleges, we defined "outcome gaps", looking specifically at the difference in graduation rates between ethnic groups and post-graduation earnings between different household income groups. We looked for patterns in the data. We found a significant relationship between school expenditures per student and the difference in earnings between students from high and low income backgrounds. 

## Project Outline

- Select relevant variables from original dataset (2000+ variables available). Each row in the dataset is a US college or university.

- Calculate gap statistics

- Exploratory Data Analysis on full data set and familiar school cohorts (UCs, CSUs, elite private schools)

- Perform Analysis of Variance on gap statistics with respect to type of school (private, public, for-profit private)

- Regress gap statistics on school expenditures per student

- Test null hypothesis on regression coefficients

- Use Random Forest to evaluate the relative importance of other possible predictors



## Models and Tools

 All scripts were written in R, with plots generated by ggplot, report written in Rnw, and slides in Rmd.

[Here's](https://abbeychaver.shinyapps.io/earnings_gaps/) a simple shiny app visualizing this relationship.

The full repo is available [here](https://github.com/abbeychaver/stat159-project3). 

[Direct Link](https://github.com/abbeychaver/stat159-project3/blob/master/reports/report.pdf) to the paper.